Tell me about your first job with 143rd Infantry.
Where were you stationed? Where were they sent
you? Well, upon mobilization, initially we
stayed at home station because, you know, the
camps weren't ready.
And that program then was to bring the National
Guard in for one year. one year only. In other
words, that was just to get them and train them in
readiness in the event that it would be needed. And
after about, oh, I guess a month, we went to Camp Bui
at Brownwood. We lived in tents with very
comfortable tents. They had a concrete slab, you
know, and there was a tent frame. And we had gas. so
in the morning all you had to do with the pilot line
was just pull that lever. Somebody nearest had a
string of wire tied to it so it was warm when you got
out of bed. And we trained there.
And didn't have fatigues, it didn't wear
fatigues. That becomes a really
rather vivid in my memory because we were wearing
Those days, you know, we had pinks and greens, pink
trousers and green jackets. And we were wearing
those pinks out on the field to train with. And of
course, around Brownwood, this thing right here,
you got all sorts of thorns. And it picked that
fabric to where it all started, ruined it, in other
words. So everybody ruined their uniform, so they
had to buy a new uniform, another uniform. Another
interesting thing that happened He did have
post-exchanges at that time, but Lauderstein,
San Antonio Lauderstein, he provided the
post-exchange facility. It sold uniform. So, you
know, he had nothing to do with these thornages. He
really had a big business of selling all this. And
they expensive. Then they went through this
situation of should you have long beaver coats or
short beaver coats. So we were ordered all to buy
long beaver coats. Everybody had to buy a long
beaver coat, and they were very expensive. So just
the uniforms were a problem back in 1940. Yeah. And
the U.S. government couldn't supply all the
troops, in other words. No. Oh, no. They were short
both clothing and certainly equipment. Oh, sure.
Because there's many pictures and articles
written about it. In the first Louisiana
maneuver, active mobilization, we went to
Leesville, Louisiana area. And you had sticks
that represented mortars and logs that
represented artillery. And even some didn't even
have rifles. They were carrying a wooden replica
of a rifle. And you should have plenty of rifles
from World War I, though, with those old MPOs or old
. Your basic mission in the 143rd was training, is
that right? That's right, readiness training.
And to get equipment and get trained, but mainly to
get the people away from home and in the field. And
later on, of course, we hadn't got field uniforms.
When we were first there, the only uniform we were
wearing was what you'd call a dress uniform. Not a
few in the report. Now during this time, 1940, you
went to the company officer's course at Fort
Benning, Georgia. Yeah. And tell me about that.
How long was it? What was the curriculum? As I
recall, it was just short of three months. And the
purpose of that course, now presently, a graduate
ROTC, a graduate military captain, they go to a
similar course. It's a basic officer's course.
where that you, once again, you're taught map
reading and weapons training. That's right. Very
similar to Officer Candidate School. It's, of
course, Officer Candidate School. You've got to
go a little bit farther because they come really as
recruits. Some of them had some military
training, but very little. But it was that type of
training, basic officer's course, basic such.
But it was very helpful and very a requirement
because you had to remember a particular National
Guard. Many National Guard officers were
appointed in those days. And what training they
had was in the armor. And you just, who trained
them? Who has the time? Who has the knowledge? So
this, of course, was very necessary.
particularly for the National Guard officers and
also reserve officers, of course, who had been
called active duty in a recent drive to the bar of
TC. And they were from all over the United States.
It was a very interesting course. And two later on,
several of the divisions went to the Far East and,
of course, others went to Europe. Now, at this
time, of course, the Japanese in 1940 were
fighting the Chinese since 1937. And on the other
side of the world, the Germans were fighting the
English at this time. It was about the time of the
Battle of Britain. Did you think that the United
States would soon be in war? Well,
I think everyone couldn't help but think the way
things were going would probably be in it. But the
nation didn't think so. And one reason why the
nation didn't is because Roosevelt kept saying,
you know, that we're not going to send our boys to
somebody else's war. And
because they've been called back to duty for a
year, the National Guard, their favorite song
that day is Goodbye, Dear. I'll be back in a year.
I'm in the Army now. Well, just before the year was
over, Congress voted by one vote, carried by one
vote, to continue the National Guard on active
duty, even though it was just a short time before
Pearl Harbor.
Oh, were you happy that it was going to stay on
National Guard and you weren't going to be placed
back on a reserve status? Oh, yeah. You wanted to
stay on active duty. Just like after we got
involved in the war, I wanted to go to Europe. Well,
let's talk about that. What happened? You're
training all the way up until December 7, 1941. Do
you remember where you were when you heard the news
of Pearl Harbor? Yeah. Cameron, Texas. I was
having a date with my school teacher's wife to be.
What was your reaction? Well, we had a, or at least I
had, we were married in a new red Ford convertible.
out Sunday, taking a ride. Of course, we were
notified to return to base. Well, I would have
returned anyway because anybody knows. Because
they were pretty well over the radio then. They
announced that it's been heavy casualties and
damage has been great, but no assessment really
has been made yet. So it wasn't a case of trying to
keep it quiet how much damage was done. Of course,
no need to, because the Japanese did it and saw them
sinking and knew what had happened, knew the
extent of the damage. So we went back and stayed in
Camp Boyd. But then people on the West Coast got
reporting that subs had been sighted. And the West
Coast particularly felt, and this is what led up to
what occurred with the evacuation of the
Japanese, you know, and put them in relocation
camp. So they were really hysterical. All up and
down the Coast Coast, they thought the Japanese
would invade at any time. And that's when they
thought somebody was sending messages and
receiving and told the innocent were suspect. So
it was just a general evacuation. Also, at
Freeport, Dow Chemical, they felt that they were
exposed, and they were making the critical metals
that we needed to build all these aircraft we were
in the process of building. So we knew they had to
protect Dow Chemical. So our company, E Company
143rd Infantry, we were alerted at night. to move
by convoy to Freeport to protect Dow Chemical. And
now you think of it, it sounds kind of oozy asinine
to think you go get, say, 150 or 200 infantrymen
with rifles, machine guns, to go to protect a
chemical plant that's right on the edge of the
Gulf, you know, that you service. You could use a
cannon, a larger artillery to destroy it. But they
were more concerned about sabotage, you know,
because submarines, they'd seen submarines in
the Gulf. I don't know if they actually saw them or
not. Did you ever, you never saw a submarine in the
Gulf, did you? And did you ever have any sabotage at
all in the area of Freeport?
Nice tour of duty there, because that's a
beautiful place there on the Gulf, isn't it? And
they had a nice facility. It was a big building. I
guess at one time, that must have been a district, a
transit type of thing, because they had beds in
there that were very comfortable. Of course, we
were on patrol, at least about a third of us at all
times, up and down the coastline.
So we returned after the scare receded.
Then we moved to Camp Blanding, Florida. And the
purpose of going to Camp Blanding was to take
further training, of course, and to prepare for an
overseas ship. It's actually Pearl Harbor now.
And we trained there with the 1st Division, with
the Corps. And after several months there, and our
troops didn't like that because we moved into
tents there. But there, they were coal-burning
stoves in the whole area, burning coal. You got
cinders and all that. And you had to get up and build
a fire, and you missed that nice, clean, natural
gas. We stayed there for several months. And did
you know where you were headed? You said you were
preparing for overseas, but you had no idea. No,
no. Then while I was there in the landing, in my job
then, I was the headquarters company commander in
the S2 wearing two hats. We had a quota to go to
Brooksfield, Texas to an aerial observation
course. And the plan at that time was that Of
course, the Air Force wasn't Air Force. It was Air
Corps. It was part of the Army . That if we had a
mission to accomplish, and we wanted to get
intelligence, information, this trained
individual would go out to the airstrip, and
getting the back seat of an aircraft flown by the
air, and telling what the mission was, and even
plan it, navigate it. And we'd go out, take
pictures, whatever the mission was, and then
return to base. In other words, the person on the
ground that knew what he wanted was trained to go up
and sit in a plane and accomplish it. And so that's
what I was down at Brookfield, which is very
interesting. In addition to aerial photography,
navigation, flexible machine gun, you're also
trained to to adjust artillery
using code CW. So you had to be a radio operator and
all sorts of things. So that was what that course
was about. And it's very interesting, although
sometimes it can be kind of hairy on the flights. We
also had night flights. Because the pilots of
these planes, and they were 052s, heavy.
underpowered as far as the Indians concerned. It
was really a Navy plane. The landing gear
retracted up into the fuselage. In fact, there's
one down there near Houston, the side of the road
now that's been there all this year. It's part of a
tavern or something. I think they call it the ship
or the airship. Because we lost quite a few. They
get lost and run out of fuel. And fortunately, mine
didn't. although we ground looped on takeoff one
time. Anyway, but these pilots were just out of
flying school. They didn't like the plane either.
They didn't have much confidence in themselves,
particularly in the plane. And at night, another
thing at that time, you took off on one frequency,
and as soon as you got airborne, then you had to
retune your radio to a ground station. away from
the field. Daytime is no problem, but at nighttime
with an inexperienced pilot, and we had several
that went to Mexico, got lost and went to Raleigh,
and of course had to bail out, for sure. So at night,
I never did even retune. I kept it on our station.
And of course, I made a low mark on my communication
with the base station down below. Because I wasn't
about to get up there and not be able to get back to
the ground. But the main reason, it wasn't because
of the retuning. That was simple, although they
didn't have push buttons. You had to get down there
and turn this thing and get it just at the right
setting. At night, while you're down and you plan
your navigation course on time, distance on
headings and time, I didn't want to be down and not
observing for that pilot, because he might get
disoriented or something in mid. I was flying at
night with the lights. You know, you fly at night,
you know, you pick as you plan it all, you know where
everything is. And we got back each time. Another
problem they had on landing, though, the
aircraft, you had to crank down an antenna that had
a great big, well, it was about the size of that,
lead, you crank that down. But you'd have to
remember to crank that thing up before you land it,
because if not, boy, you'd hang it on wires and
people's heads and so forth. And a lot of them would
forget to reel up their antenna. Another common,
of course, mistake was made is that they'd forget
to take the cover over the camera. They'd go out and
fly all this nation back and forth, you know, make
these strips, come back and find out. All they took
was a picture of the cover. But returned back, and
when I got back to Camp Blanning, I said, where's
the unit? They said, Carolina on maneuvers. I
said, well, I better join them. And this colonel,
he said, no, Lieutenant, we're really happy to see
you because I need you to help me here. So we got the
inventory of all this equipment, turned it over to
the post, Then we got a load of trains with the
things we were taking with us, you know, from day
rooms like radios and that sort of thing, up to Camp
Edwards. That was the home station, which people
were in the field, but that's where they were
going. And this was really something to leave your
home station to go on a maneuver and then never
return there and go from there. Sure. It was all
that unfinished business that's got to be
accomplished in the back. So I said, okay, he's the
boss. So I worked there for several days. Finally
we got the train loaded and I was going to command.
And we went on up to Massachusetts to Camp Edwards
on the Cape. And I noticed that the regimental
commander that met the train, first he looked at me
kind of astounded.
And he spoke to me, returned my salute. And then
turned and stalked off. What's happening? And
time went on, and I didn't find out until after the
war.
In the book we have here now, The Texas Army, have
you ever seen that book?
I read in there that when I didn't return directly
from Brooksfield.
They dropped me as being absent without leave. And
they had called Brooksfield. They said, well, he
signed out right here on this date. Boy, he should
have been there long ago. Days have passed now.
Nobody thought to call down there, Camp Blanning,
and find out whether Andrews was there. So they all
thought that you were over the hill? Yeah,
desertion. And in the book, he writes about that,
he doesn't name me, but he writes about this
lieutenant, was the first one that deserted, was
AWL. Of course, they're going to drop me after 30
days for desertion. They're planning on it. So
they had met at division and said, well, we've got
to make an example of this one officer. So we're
going to get him the maximum. As soon as we get him,
we're going to try him. So that's what shocked
Colonel Martin when he found out. And I imagine
immediately he said, well, guys, that guy's been
down there all the time. He goes, he was in command
of the train and brought it up here from Camp
Blanning. And what had happened, this is what
petty personalities can do. The colonel who was
down at Blanning was a regular Army colonel who if
not an alcoholic, boarded on the alcoholic scene.
He and the division had been at odds, so they kind of
banished him down there to keep him out of
everybody else's way. So that's one reason they
didn't call. They wouldn't pay any attention to
him. But it turned out I was never tried, and nobody
ever even said I was going to be, nor did they
apologize. I mean, just went on. It took an actual
war that I talked to some people and then saw this
Texas book. Texas Army. So at Blanding, our
purpose at Blanding at Edwards was amphibious
training. That was a big amphibious training
center. And you were getting ready for landing.
Now we had our families along with us. Of
course, not paid, not like it is now when you have to
change the station. At your own expense,
actually, it's got to find places to live. And in
most, each of these places, planning out, Edward,
we were busy working at night, working day to day. I
would think so. We didn't see our family very much
at all. You were still, your mission was training.
Yeah. And so the day finally arrived, actually, I
call that amphibious training we had. And we were
going to ship out, although they didn't know where
we went. So the family started back to Texas. We
loaded in and went to Brooklyn to load on the ship.
When was this?
Early 43?
Yeah.
It was one day before our anniversary, so that was
on the 2nd of April, 43.
We loaded onto a Hawaiian shipper. That's a
converted Hawaiian pineapple boat.
Pretty crowded. And then joined a convoy. Oh, it
was a big convoy. Everything had to be convoyed.
That was the height of the German submarines.
Particularly against the British, boy, they were
giving them a beating up in the North Sea. It was a
big convoy. I guess we had 15 or 20 cargo ships like
ours and Navy. I don't forget how many you could see
all the destroyers around us. It landed in North
Africa, near Oran.
Where is that?
Algeria? Oran? Oran or Algeria?
Algeria. O-R-A-N.
Yeah, O-R-A-N. Algeria.
Okay, so you landed there and probably in that same
month, April 1943. And a ship, our convoy, not
ours, we landed with, and wasn't even aware of it.
It was one of the ships in the convoy that got into
the Mediterranean. was hit by a submarine and
loaded with troops. But it wasn't in the 36th
Division. Did they lose many troops? I don't know
how many they lost.
I don't think they lost a great number. I mean, not
like two or three hundred, but they lost quite a
few. What was the feeling of the men when you
landed? Were people eager to get in the war or were
they nervous or anxious? Do you remember their
feelings and your feelings? Most were agents.
They've described, you know, after Vietnam,
World War II being a popular war. That's because
everybody was involved. Their families and every
family had somebody somewhere. And patriotism,
too. Everybody was eager to do their share.
There's nothing to compare it with Vietnam.
Vietnam's a tragedy, disaster from the word go.
Well, we get back to this travel log. And when we
landed, then we moved on out a short distance
outside of Oren. And it was night, so we pitched pup
tents. And everyone, gosh, this terrible odor
that we all smelled. And when daylight arrived,
the Arabs were standing around there. trying to
figure out what we were doing, bivouacking in
their latrine. You know, not having any toilet,
not even slitting, you know, this was the area out
there where they relieved themselves. And so at
night, how you lined up the tent, you know, you just
went down and pitched the tent. Gosh, it was
terrible. Well, the next day after that, trucks
came and we moved over towards the
to French Maraca near Rabat.
There's Rabat right
there. See Rabat? R-A-B-A-T.
I said truck, weren't truck, were train.
R-A-B-A-T. Why did you move? In that way, when the
war is going the other way. Yeah, when the war was
going east.
Spanish-Morocco. Spain,
you know, was not friendly at all, and they
expected Spanish-Morocco to
be a problem
And so they moved the 36th Division over here into
French Maraca
in case it... To control the straits. Control,
yeah, to be there in the... Straits of Gibraltar.
And so we've been whacked in a cork forest, cork
tree. But that trip was not with truck, it was by
train. Old World War I type trains where they used
to call them 40 and 8, you know, 40 men or 8 animals,
40 at that time. chugging along clear across that
desert-like terrain. So we stayed there and we
also protected, you know remember they had a head
to state meeting at Casablanca. Yeah. Well. And
did you go to Casablanca for that? Our, our trip,
our troops provided the security for this big, big
castle. I wouldn't call it a castle, just a great
big mansion. Did you get to see either Roosevelt or
Churchill? No. We provided security in the
distance. We had no business to go into. I didn't
have any business. I didn't see them.
Was there a lot of worry about sabotage?
Or was it a secure
area? It was a secure area.
What were the conditions like in Morocco?
Well, of course, Morocco had never been touched
with a war. So everything was business as usual.
There were some ships.
You remember the French?
When the French surrendered,
they ordered their navy to run
aground, including cargo ships. And there was a
ship near Rabat that was aground, a great big ship.
Of course, we were eating canned food. And the
captain was aboard. I don't remember what his
cargo was. Cargo was intact. And he could
eventually get off. He couldn't by himself. He
would have to have tugs and things to pull him up.
But he had a whole locker full of meat, fresh meat.
So he'd have us aboard. He had some good wine, so we
had a good steak. So military life in Morocco was
pretty good during the war. Yeah, actually, see,
most of the troops Well, they had the palace guard,
that type of thing, but that's the reason we were
there to provide troops. No, you get on the west
side of Africa, there's very little activity of
the war at all.
Did you want to get back to the east side and to
participate in the invasion of Sicily? Yeah,
because we were all busy there. training. We were
training where you just weren't sitting around
there. But we knew and we had observers by the way
that went up to the front and returned so we got all
of the gory details of how the fighting was going
there. Then while we were there also we started
taking these German prisoners. You know after the
Germans finally lost and evacuated but most of
them captured. And our troops provided the truck
to haul the Germans, and we had to guard way, you
know, clear across over where they were. We were
hundreds of thousands of miles, really. So they
had to haul them all the way back to Oren, that big
enclosure. And our troops would get so tired, This
makes you wonder why we even have wars when things
like this occur. But the Germans, who were
regarded and felt sorry for him, they said, you go
ahead and get some sleep so I'll guard for you. No
kidding. But the truth of the matter is that they
didn't try to escape because there's nowhere you
can escape. You can't go out in that desert and die.
So you'd actually end up with more troops than you
started out with. Because you'd pick up
stragglers, some who got off the truck to relieve
themselves or something. And of course, all the
German troops were, boy, they were good-looking
troops. Big, husky, many of them blonde and
blue-eyed and tip-top physical condition. Good
equipment. Just when there's prisoners, just as
if they were right. In other words, the command
structure Of course, you're usually a prison
camp. You're trying to separate your senior
people from them because of that. But even down in
the lowest squad and so forth, that sergeant had
them under control. Every morning in the
enclosure, get up and take calisthenics
together. Everything was done, precision.
And so some of our troops. How about the Italian
troops? Did you capture any Italians?
At least they didn't come back to us. See, these
were coming to be shipped back to the United
States, which we did. A lot of them down in Fort
Benning. A lot of them around here in Texas. So we
finished the training there in North Africa and
being in French Morocco.
Then we thought that we were going into Sicily,
although, of course, we didn't know where we were
going. We thought we were going somewhere.
Because the North African campaign had come to a
conclusion. But anybody looking at the map would
think it would be Sicily or Italy. Of course, it
could have been southern France, but it wasn't at
the time. So we went to finally load it on ship.
not for Sicily because other units had gotten into
Sicily, landed. So we didn't know where we were
going. Were we going to reinforce Sicily? We
didn't think so because it just about cleaned up
there.
But it turned out that we were going to Italy. And it
was all the leaders, went to be briefed, which we
were, about going in Salerno. I said, now, keep
this on. I don't want you to even pass it on to your
troops yet, because you'll brief them aboard
ship. No need for anybody to know it, except you
people. And so one knucklehead, one officer, he
came out. Subconsciously, he didn't mean to. He
started whistling, the Isle of Capri. Right over
the Isle of Capri. Kicked him and said, shut up, you
fool. And so we landed in Salerno. Before we
landed, Italy had surrendered. And so everybody
was happy that this was going to be a short
campaign, taking Italy out. But the Italians'
heart, if it ever was, wasn't to win the war at all.
They were very poor soldiers in North Africa. In
fact, the Germans usually just ignored them
because they knew that they wouldn't fight,
wouldn't stand. not dependable at all. And in some
cases, the Germans claimed they were more of a
burden, because they had to supply them and at
least make out like, since they're allies, that
you told them, yeah, you have this sector. And so
when we went into Italy, of course, the Italians
did make a bit of a difference, because the Germans
had moved down the Salerno, especially around the
hill. And they were prepared for the landing
Fortunately, I'm a company commander now. My unit
was not. I wasn't a rifle company commander. I was a
headquarters company commander, captain. But
our battalion wasn't in the assault wing. So the
ones who took the cages were the ones who were
assaulting the beach. So we went on in fairly good
shape on up to the high ground When did you land? How
many days after the original assault? Same day.
Oh, the same day, but just later? It just wasn't in
the leading way. Okay. It was still fire on the
beach when we got there, artillery and mortar, but
not small army fire. Always some off at the flank,
some on the thing, but not... We went on up to the
high ground
and got the beach secured, and then the Germans
counterattacked. And they almost got all the way
back down to the beach, but a tank unit was able to
stop the tank, any tank that knocked out two or
three German tanks.
Finally went up to Alta Villa, had that secured,
and then the Germans counterattacked and retook
that.
What did you think of the German troops in that
place, the quality of them? All good. Not quite as
good as those North African troops. But still, at
this time in the war, the quality was still high.
Later on in France and Germany, it slacked off
completely. Not completely, but quite a bit.
Older men, younger, and they didn't have the
heart. They knew the war was lost. How did the
Italian civilians, how did your troops get along
with them? every village you go, they got cousins
in New York City and Chicago.
Oh yeah, Americans and Italians, I really like
Italians. They love to sing and eat and have sex. So
many of them, I guess they do. But the action So much
of my life has been luck. The next action was that
the Germans were attacking the perimeter, and the
high command, General Clark, decided that a
regiment of the 45th Division, that's the
Oklahoma unit, would be pulled out. This is an
entire regiment now, between the Salay and the
Kolo River, would be pulled out. in our battalion
who were replaced. And it was a night exercise. So
you could hear it. And they had tanks and tank
destroyers supporting them. We did. So here at
night, you could hear that clanking of the tanks.
All of them were going in a different direction.
And nothing but quietness. That's what we were
seeing. And it got real quiet. And our troops were
digging in.
Early the next day, the Germans attacked. They
attacked us from the front and they attacked us
from the flank.
And Colonel Jones, Lieutenant Colonel, who
commanded the battalion, we had no communication
with divisions. All the lines were out. Radios
couldn't contact us. We were beyond artillery
range. All the things that you're teaching, you
never let this happen. Sure. You've got to have
them in support. Right. Support. So you were like
on a peninsula. Yeah, I was about to. Because you
have two. But Germans on both sides. Two streams.
You've got the Germans in front. We've got these
two rivers. But you've got the Germans. One is
shallow enough for them to cross. And then there's
a road that goes on back behind. So since I was the
headquarters company commander, this is why I say
I had a lot of lucky breaks. Colonel Jones, he said,
Captain Andrew, you go back to division and you
tell them what our situation is. And we need
assistance. We can't get artillery support. And
you can hear these German tanks around here. And
you can already hear machine guns. The German
machine guns, of course, were rapid. You ever
heard everybody and machine like that.
So I said, Yes, sir. So we took off with my jeep with
my driver who happened to be in Caldwell heading
back to division. Well, when we got back near a
crossing, the German tank and infantry you could
see him was already almost completely
surrounding the battalion. But we were able to
scoot through that, not on the road, but got across
on a, it wasn't a bridge, but it was a field, sort of
like a low-crossing bridge that the jeep could get
across. We cut out across an open field and got away
from the Germans. Did they see you? Yeah, because
they were shooting small arms, not artillery,
just about some jeep going across the field,
plowed field. And they were shooting at you? And I
saw, yeah, but not, this is not the dangerous part.
It comes a little bit later. So I saw a man running
the line, I guess coming out to our battalion, you
know. And I got down and I said, you have contact
with the division? He said, yes, sir. So he plugged
in his telephone and sounded. And I got the G3 of the
division. And I told him that Jones had sent me out.
They need help. They're practically surrounded
now. And I say, they are surrounded now. I said, you
couldn't be, because I said, you up there, it's the
lake over there. And I said, please, take my word
for it. He said, I just got shot at. I can see the
Germans right now. And he says, all right, I'll do
what I can. So then we started back, thinking we'd
go around and get back to them. But then they had got
complete crossing. Not quite encircled yet,
because there's still one access way around. It'd
have to be at Alapavilla. As I was trying to work
away, the Germans had outdeveloped. They worked
their way back around to get back to Jones,
although all we could do is give them sympathy and
say the message was conveyed. German 88
millimeter, that's a combination ground,
mountain, any aircraft. And they sound
automatically. They can shoot about four rounds
without reloading. So it just, boom, boom, boom.
Now, 88 started. like shooting ducks like these
games, you know, where they run across, we're
going across there bumping and he shot behind us
and in front of us and finally one hit right near by.
Didn't hit me, but hit the driver. And so I pulled
him to the side and got in and got him to the
hospital. No more hits on that. So the battalion
was complete, almost wiped out. Part of one
company was able to get across through the east
flame to get out. They were the outpost. You know,
tactics, you're outpost for one unit, and then
you've got the main line and reserves. They were
there. So they got cut off from the main line. So
several of them were almost wiped out? Most of them
were captured. I see. But quite a few got killed,
wounded, not so many killed. So there I was, not
only without a company, without a battalion. Did
Colonel Jones get captured? Yeah. I think he's
still alive in Temple. That was his hometown.
So we had to rebuild a unit. We got replacements. We
got some real fine officers, one named Denhold. He
took the battalion. He was a West Point graduate.
And he instilled a unit, a rebuilt unit, with
really a Supreme Corps. And he knew what he was
doing. He trained. He'd already been wounded in
North Africa when the first was made. Still had his
wound training. And that showed his dedication to
it. He left the hospital way before he should have,
but got permission to anybody to come up and join.
He figured his experience in North Africa would
assist a division that's new and just going into
combat.
So that's the story of the Battle of Salerno. Did
you know, did you ever get to see Mark Clark? Oh,
yeah. And would you describe him for me? Oh, yeah, a
real dime. In fact, I got a picture of him in the
Silver Storm in Italy. And I've seen him since
then.
One time up at Fort Monroe, he came there for me.
Well, he's a
He's a tall guy to begin with, so he's overlooking
everybody else. He's got a kind of a hooked nose,
and Churchill named him the Eagle because of his
nose. It's really not that pronounced, but he's
highly intelligent, kind of a fast delivery in his
speech, and very friendly.
As you find a lot of them, most of them, very
ambitious at that time. It's interesting. He
recommended Eisenhower for a job when Eisenhower
was a brigadier general and he was a major general.
And that was the result of the Louisiana maneuver.
And of course, Eisenhower was, Eisenhower didn't
ever think he was going to make a general lawsuit
because he was too old. He was classed in 1950. Of
course, Bradley was the same class.